hi this is gary with macmost now on
today's episode let's look at how to
sort and arrange files in finder in Mac
OS 10 lion so lion really did change
some things about how you look at files
in Finder windows let's examine those
changes and learn how to use them so
here's a Finder window with my documents
folder now as before you've got for
viewing modes you have the icon viewing
mode you have a listview column view and
Cover Flow which is really just list
view with coverflow at the top so we can
go back to icon view and start there now
under icon view you see these icons and
one of the questions I get asked is how
do you change the size of these icons
and there's a little control down here
if you don't see that control go to view
and show the status bar see if I hide it
it goes away now once you have them the
right size you may want to sort them and
there's two different things that you
can do here one is cleaning up and the
other was arranged by and arranged by is
very new so cleanup works as before
it'll actually resource all of the files
let's do that clean up by name you can
see it's rhys ordered all the files into
the size of the window I have and it's
sort of them by name that's a permanent
change I've just moved everything so
it's there and I can't undo it now if I
also want to use the arraigned by
function there I can select something
like say let's arrange by kind and you
can see it divides up all of the things
here into various groups here I've got a
group of folders and a group of
documents and it puts them in separate
places also it gives me this kind of
cover flow look you can see here I have
more documents to the right if I use two
finger scrolling on my trackpad I can
move back and forth and look at all
these items here now you don't have the
ability to do much more when you're
using the arranged by function so you
want to check to make sure that if you
want to do something like clean things
up or whatever you want to put arranged
by to none let me show you in list view
exactly how that works and
listview here I can normal list you sort
by name i can click there to sort by
size i can reverse the sort all sorts of
things but if i switch to arrange by and
say range by kind i don't have the
ability to sort by any of those things
anymore it's because we kind of get
confusing you'd have this group swear by
something and then this group sort about
something else so if you want that kind
of sorting you want to make sure you set
arranged by to none and also know you've
got all these different arranged view
options here like for instance size is
kind of interesting it groups them by
size of document the arranged by name
it's kind of the most useless out of all
of them it basically gives you a view
looks like you're not arranged them in
any way and it has a permanent sort you
can't actually click up in the column
you to change anything so if you want to
set it to arrange by none that's when
you get control back of arranging
everything by columns then one of the
cool things about arranged by is I can
go into column view and I could still
use arranged by even though I can't sort
in column view I can say arranged by
kind and you can see that columns
arranged by kind if I then select a
folder here and let's find a folder with
stuff in it you can see that that calms
also arranged by kind so then I can even
go and arrange by say sighs and then it
will arrange the each column by size in
there so that could be useful now just
like before you can go to view show view
options and you get many more options
here and it all depends upon what view
you're in so for instance that's a list
view you can see what I get I get which
columns to be shown arranged by in short
buyer there but I could also go to icon
view and now I have I concise and grid
spacing and things like that and in
column you I've got a different set of
settings as well but the arranged by is
shown there just as you have access to
it up here another new thing is the all
my files folder so this gives you a view
of basically all of your files and
they're arranged by
kind by default but you can set that to
something else and this will show you
all the files that you have in all the
different folders inside your user
folder now the my is the key word there
it's all of your files so it doesn't
include things that would be say owned
by the system or owned by other users
they're on your Mac now of course it's
important to note that your files are
still in the same place for instance
your documents or probably still in your
users Documents folder these are just
different ways of finding and sorting
the files in Finder windows and of
course an open and save dialogues as
well now remember the new arranged by
function is completely optional just set
it to none and then Finder windows
basically operate like they did in Snow
Leopard so you don't have to use these
new features if you don't want to only
use them at selected times hope you
found this useful until next time this
is gary with macmost now want more video
tutorials just go to back most com click
on the videos link at the top of the
page and then you can view all the
hundreds of macmost videos by category